= RightLink 5.9

== New Features

* The RS_DECOM_REASON environment variable is set during decommission script/recipe execution to indicate the reason why decommission
  is running. This variable will have one of the following values: 'reboot', 'stop', 'terminate' or 'unknown'
  The value will be 'reboot', 'stop' or 'terminate' when decommissioning through the RightScale dashboard or when using the
  rs_shutdown command. The 'unknown' value may be seen when the rightlink service is decommissioned (not stopped) from the console or
  else the instance is shutdown or rebooted without using the rs_shutdown command.

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* When freezing the RubyGems repository, RightLink now edits the systemwide RubyGems config file (/etc/gemrc) rather than modifying 
  root's (~root/.gemrc). This will help ensure more consistent RubyGems behavior across multiple users and Ruby versions.

= RightLink 5.8

== New Features

=== Security and Compliance

* Compliance with the Linux Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) helps RightLink coexist with host-based IDS
  * See INSTALL.rdoc for more information on filesystem paths
* Managed login requires users to login with to their own limited-privilege account, and to execute privileged commands using "sudo"
* Some features of RightLink can be disabled prior to package install, to facilitate custom image builds for high-security deployment
  environments
  * For more information, refer to http://bit.ly/IftBeq or to RightLink's INSTALL.rdoc

=== Automation

* Concurrent recipe/script execution is supported; see the --thread option of rs_run_recipe and rs_run_right_script.
* Non-error audit output can be suppressed for recipes/scripts that run very frequently; see the --policy and --audit-period
  options of rs_run_recipe and rs_run_right_script
* Tag queries accept a timeout option -- both via the rs_tag command-line tool, and the ServerCollection resource
* The agent queries its own tags before running a sequence of scripts or recipes, helping to ensure that tag-based decisions
  are made using fresh state. The result of the tag query is audited, to enhance transparency and facilitate debugging.

=== Chef

* Chef 0.10.10
* An rs_ohai command is available to invoke Ohai from the command line with all of the RightScale plugins and enhancements.
* RightLink features "development mode" for cookbooks, wherein the instance directly checks out cookbooks from their
  associated Git/Subversion repository and converges using the contents of the repo. Users can edit recipes between runs,
  and even commit and push their changes upstream after everything is working.
  * Enable this for selected cookbooks by applying a tag to the server that lists comma-separated dev cookbook names
  * e.g. rs_agent_dev:dev_cookbooks=cb_1,cb_2,cb_3,...
  * For more information on cookbook development, refer to http://bit.ly/HHcVhs
* Most commands invoked by Ohai/Chef are logged with DEBUG severity for easier debugging of troublesome providers/recipes. To change
  the RightLink log, use the rs_log_level command.

== Miscellaneous

* The rs_agent_dev:log_level tag now allows you to specify any level (not just debug). Other agent-dev tags no longer force debug log level.
  The log level can be changed by other utilities, e.g. the rs_log_level command, even if it has been initially set by the tag. The chef
  process will re-query it's tags prior to convergence and the rs_log_level tag will take precedence in this case.

== Bug Fixes

* The command-line tools now report a meaningful version number (currently 0.3) and will continue to do so with future RightLink releases
* Instances will strand if they fail to install any package required by boot scripts
* HTTP metadata fetching is more tolerant of server errors; its output is far less verbose
* The UI's ordering of cookbook repositories is preserved at runtime, for cookbooks that are defined in multiple repos
* Extraneous Ohai debug output has been squelched from audits and logs
* RightLink agent startup and shutdown is more reliable under Linux


