= DISCLAIMER & WARNING

This guide demonstrates how to build the RightLink gem, install it into any
Ruby interpreter, and integrate it with Linux. This is an advanced procedure
that is intended for people who want to modify or contribute to the RightLink
software itself.

Due to the large number of variables between different OS distributions and
Ruby versions, RightScale cannot support RightLink when it is installed in
this fashion. If your goal is to use RightLink to deploy and manage cloud
servers, then your goals are better accomplished by one of the following
options:

== Use a RightScale-Published Machine Image

A RightImage™ is a base machine image, published by RightScale, that can be
used to launch instances in cloud infrastructures.  RightImages are unique
from other cloud-based machine images because they are specifically designed
for optimum communication with the RightScale platform. RightImages are
Each of RightScale's published ServerTemplates was tested and published with
one or more RightImages.

RightImages are available for several distributions/versions of Linux and
for Windows. They are the best choice for someone who wants a known-good
starting point to build their own ServerTemplates.

To obtain RightImages and start using them, please consult our
{support site}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/RightScale_101/06-Advanced_Concepts/RightImages].

== Install a Release-Quality RightLink Package

RightScale provides pre-built, supported RightLink packages in several
formats (RPM, DEB, MSI) that are compatible with multiple Linux distributions
and versions.

TODO - provide install instructions for RL 5.9 once an officially-supported
build is released.

== Install an Early-Access RightLink Package

For the adventurous, RightScale provides access to nightly builds of RightLink
that are produced from the master branch. These packages undergo automated
regression testing after they are built, and are generally quite stable.

We cannot provide support for customers who employ nightly builds, but
they are a good way to experiment with the latest RightLink features, and
to explore upcoming enhancements and changes.

After installing the RightLink package, you can bundle an image and use
it to create your own MultiCoudImage.

Alternatively, if you install to an instance that was launched as a server
via the RightScale dashboard, you can reboot the instance to proceed with
running the boot scripts for the associated ServerTemplate.

=== Nightly RPMs

For RedHat-based systems, we publish nightly builds to a yum repository.
The repository follows an EPEL-like layout and supports multiple distributions
and releases.

As of May 2013, we produce nightlies for the following:
  * RHEL 6 (also compatible with CentOS 6)

To install nightly RPMs, first create a yum source.

  cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/RightLink-development.repo <<EOF
  [rightlink]
  name=RightLink
  baseurl=https://rightlink-integration.s3.amazonaws.com/nightly/yum/1/el/$releasever/$basearch/
  gpgcheck=0
  EOF

Next install the base RightLink package, plus a cloud support package for
the cloud type your instance is running on:

  yum install -y rightlink rightlink-cloud-ec2

=== Nightly DEBs

For Debian-derived systems, we publish nightly builds to an apt repository.
The repository is automatic (supports multiple distributions and releases).

As of May 2013, we produce nightlies for the following:
 * Ubuntu 12.04

To install nightly DEBs, first create an apt source, ensuring that you specify
the right architecture and release code name. For instance, on an amd64
system that is running Ubuntu 12.04 (precise):

  cat > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/rightlink.sources.list <<EOF
  deb [arch=amd64] https://rightlink-integration.s3.amazonaws.com/nightly/apt precise main
  deb-src [arch=amd64] https://rightlink-integration.s3.amazonaws.com/nightly/apt precise main
  EOF

Next install the base RightLink package, plus a cloud support package for the
cloud type your instance is running on:

  apt-get update
  apt-get install rightlink rightlink-cloud-ec2

=== Nightly MSIs

TODO - provide install instructions for nightly MSIs once we begin producing them

= PREREQUISITES

RightLink is a Ruby application that runs as a daemon. It depends on the
following system components/packages, which must be installed before you
can proceed with RightLink installation.
* Ruby >= 1.8.7 p334 or better -- older versions have GC issues!
* RubyGems >= 1.3.7
* C/C++ toolchain (needed to install various gems)

Several auxiliary packages are recommended in order to obtain full RightLink
functionality at runtime:
* git and Subversion clients (facilitates Chef recipe development)
* curl (for download of RightScript attachments)
* dig, sed and perl (used by some cloud-specific config logic)

== Supported Configurations

RightLink is regularly tested on the following Linux distributions:
* CentOS - 5.4, 5.6
* Ubuntu - 8.04, 10.04, 10.10, 11.04

It has been known to work on the following with little or no modification:
* Debian
* RedHat Enterprise Linux
* SuSE Linux

And on the following kinds of cloud:
* Amazon Web Services (AWS)
* Rackspace Cloud Servers
* Eucalyptus
* CloudStack

Although RightLink is Windows-compatible and is regularly released for
Windows variants, installation and configuration are not yet covered in this
document. For information on the RightLink Windows MSI, see the documentation
page on our {support wiki}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Windows_User_Guide]

== CentOS Systems

Install the C toolchain and related libraries, plus some additional libs
required for RightLink,

 yum install -y gcc-c++ patch readline readline-devel zlib zlib-devel libyaml-devel libffi-devel openssl-devel make bzip2 iconv-devel libarchive-devel

CentOS does not have a suitable prepackaged Ruby. To run RightLink, you
can install RVM and use it to satisfy the Ruby dependency.

== Ubuntu Systems

Install the C toolchain and related libraries, plus some additional libs
required for RightLink.

 apt-get update
 # may need libreadline5 (not 6), on older systems. Ditto with libreadline5-dev
 apt-get install -y build-essential gcc g++ bison openssl libreadline6 zlib1g vim autoconf libxml2 libffi
 apt-get install -y libssl-dev libarchive-dev libreadline-dev zlib1g-dev libyaml-dev libffi-dev libxml2-dev
 apt-get install -y git-core perl sed curl dnsutils

=== System Ruby (Optional)

On Ubuntu, you have the choice of using RVM (see instructions below) or
installing a system Ruby interpreter. RVM is recommended, but it is
possible to run against the system Ruby interpreter provided it's recent
enough.

On Ubuntu < 10.04.3, it is necessary to fetch the newer packages from an Ubuntu
mirror. You can download them from EasyNews (as in the example below), or
get them from a mirror {close to you}[http://packages.ubuntu.com/natty/all/rubygems1.8/download]

 apt-get install -y ruby1.8 ">=1.8.7"
 apt-get install -y ruby1.8-dev g++ libreadline-ruby1.8 rubygems1.8 irb1.8 rdoc1.8

 wget http://mirrors.easynews.com/linux/ubuntu//pool/universe/libg/libgems-ruby/rubygems1.8_1.3.7-2_all.deb
 dpkg -i rubygems1.8_1.3.7-2.deb
 apt-get -f install

== All Linux Systems

Ruby Version Manager (RVM) is a set of shell scripts that allows you to build
and install multiple Ruby interpreters side by side.

*NOTE* - If you create init scripts for RightLink, they should source rvm.sh
and "rvm use" the appropriate Ruby before invoking any RightLink commands.

 bash < <(curl -sk https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/install/rvm)
 source /etc/profile.d/rvm.sh

 rvm install ruby-1.8.7-p352

 rvm use ruby-1.8.7-p352

= PRE-INSTALL CUSTOMIZATIOn

== Feature Control Customization

Before installing RightLink (either as a package or from sources), you can
selectively disable certain features that may not be compatible with your
deployment environment.

Feature control is accomplished by creating a special YAML file prior to
installing the package or running any RightLink init script or program
logic. The YAML file contains some boolean flags that affect the behavior
of the init scripts and the agent at runtime.

The following features can all be disabled:
 * Managed login (aka Server Login Control)
 * Frozen OS package repositories
 * Automatic MOTD update on state transitions

To disable one or more of these features, create the following file:

 /etc/rightscale.d/right_link/features.yml

And populate the file thusly, supplying true/false for each feature
as appropriate.

 motd:
   update: false
 package_repositories:
   freeze: false
 managed_login:
   enable: false

All features are assumed to be enabled by default unless this file exists
and the associated feature is marked as disabled. Therefore, you can omit
sections for features that should remain enabled.

= INSTALLATION

== One-Time Setup

If you are packaging RightLink, run these commands as a post-install step
for your package. If you are bundling a cloud image, run these commands
_before_ bundling.

=== Fetch RightLink Source

 mkdir -p /opt/rightscale
 cd /opt/rightscale
 git clone git://github.com/rightscale/right_link.git
 
Clone the RightLink source repository from GitHub. By cloning it into
/opt/rightscale, you will be able to run RightLink directly out of the source
repository with no intermediate packaging or install steps.

=== Run Setup Script

 cd right_link
 bin/setup.sh

The source distribution contains setup.sh, which installs some necessary
RubyGems and also copies some RightLink command-line tools into suitable
system directories so they can be invoked by users and scripts.

On Unix systems, CLI tools are created in /usr/bin. By convention, they
begin with the prefix "rs_" e.g. rs_tag or rs_run_recipe.

= INTEGRATING WITH THE SYSTEM

== Multi-Cloud Support

 export RS_CLOUD=ec2 # or another cloud type, see below...
 mkdir -p /etc/rightscale.d
 echo "$RS_CLOUD" > /etc/rightscale.d/cloud

RightLink supports many virtualization engines, cloud APIs and other facets
of cloud technology. Due to lack of standardization, there is no reliable
way for RightLink to auto-detect the cloud type in which it is running.

We have taken the pragmatic approach and require the user to give RightLink a
hint about its runtime environment. RightLink must know its cloud type in
order to retrieve launch settings and runtime metadata that are crucial to
successful operation.

In the commands below, we refer to an environment variable RS_CLOUD. You
should set RS_CLOUD to the cloud type under which RightLink is running, before
running any of the commands below. RS_CLOUD is your "hint" to RightLink.

RightLink knows about the following values of RS_CLOUD:
* ec2
* rackspace
* eucalyptus
* cloudstack
* openstack

== On-Boot Commands

Under Linux these are accomplished with init scripts, optionally using monit
for robustness. Under Windows, a system service spawns the agent process and
monitors its health.

CAUTION: if your instance is attached to the RightScale dashboard, running
the commands below will cause it to begin running boot scripts! This is not
harmful, but if your intent is to bundle a "pristine" image, you probably
want to put the following commands into an init script and test by bundling
and relaunching.

 #The commands below use relative paths for readability
 cd /opt/rightscale
 
 # Fetch metadata from cloud and make it available in the shell environment
 bin/cloud --name $RS_CLOUD --action bootstrap > /dev/null
 . /var/spool/cloud/user-data.sh
 
=== Determine Boot State

 # TODO - check_for_rightscale

 # TODO - rightboot init script (detect reboot & tweak state)

 # TODO - check_boot_state, update_boot_state 

=== Run Fix-It Tasks

 # TODO - UNDOCUMENTED - bin/system --action ssh
 # TODO - UNDOCUMENTED - bin/system --action hostname
 # TODO - UNDOCUMENTED - bin/system --action proxy

=== Configure RightLink Agent
 
 bin/enroll --root-dir /opt/rightscale/right_link --url $RS_RN_URL --host $RS_RN_HOST --id $RS_RN_ID --token $RS_RN_AUTH
 bin/deploy
 
=== Launch RightLink Agent

 # Start the RightLink agent
 bin/rnac --start instance

 # Start the agent watchdog process
 bin/rchk --start

At this point, your instance should be booting and sending audit entries back to the RightScale dashboard.
Navigate to this server and verify that it's booting cleanly.

== On-Shutdown Commands

When the system is terminating, you should allow RightLink to run its decommission scripts.

 #The commands below use relative paths for readability
 cd /opt/rightscale
 
 bin/rnac --decommission

== Filesystem Locations

=== Linux Systems

 /etc/rightscale.d               | Static configuration, incl. "hints" for init scripts
 /etc/rightscale.d/right_link    | Static files that customize RightLink behavior
 /var/spool/cloud                | Cloud-provided metadata & user-data
 /var/lib/rightscale/right_agent | Persistent config files generated at startup
 /var/lib/rightscale/right_link  | Persistent RightLink agent state
 /var/run                        | Transient agent state, e.g. pid files
 /var/cache                      | Cookbooks, attachments, temp files
 /usr/bin                        | Public CLI: rs_tag, rs_debug, ...
 /opt/rightscale/bin             | Private CLI: rnac, rad, cook, ...
 /opt/rightscale/sandbox         | Private sandbox (Ruby, RubyGems, monit, ...)
 /opt/rightscale/right_link      | Application logic & support files

=== Windows Systems

Data files -- paths are relative to %COMMON_APPDATA%\RightScale

 rightscale.d            | Static "hints" for system services
 spool\cloud             | Cloud-provided metadata & user-data (.sh, .rb, raw formats)
 RightAgent              | Persistent config files generated at startup
 right_link              | Persistent RightLink agent state
 cache                   | Cookbooks, attachments, temp files

Program logic -- paths are relative to %ProgramFiles(x86)%

 RightScale\RightLink    | Application logic & support files
 RightScale\sandbox      | Private sandbox (Ruby, RubyGems, monit, ...)
