= RightLink

= DESCRIPTION

== Synopsis

RightLink automates servers configuration and monitoring. It uses Nanite[1] as
message bus and relies on Chef[2] for configuring. RightLink uses RightPopen[3]
to monitor the stdout and stderr streams of scripted processes. Servers running
the RightLink agent configures themselves on startup an register with the Nanite
mapper so that operational recipes and scripts can be run at a later time.

Refer to the wiki (https://github.com/rightscale/right_link/wikis) for up-to-date
documentation.

Also use the built-in issues tracker (https://github.com/rightscale/right_link/issues)
to report issues.

== Interface

The RightLink agent exposes actors and methods used to schedule the execution
of Chef recipes and RightScripts (shell scripts). These actors are:

* <b>instance_setup/report_state</b>: Retrieve the current state of the instance (boot, operational, etc.)
* <b>instance_scheduler/schedule_bundle</b>: Schedule the execution of a Chef recipe or RightScript

RightLink retrieves the <i>execution bundles</i> containing all the information
required to run the Chef recipe or RightScript from other nanite agents. An
execution bundle consists of a sequence of Chef recipes and/or RightScripts
together with any required data (Chef attributes, RightScript parameters,
packages etc.). The exact definition can be found in the
<i>lib/payload_types</i> library.

The agents RightLink relies on for operation are expected to provide the following actors and methods:

* booter actor:
  * booter/set_r_s_version: Set the RightLink version number
  * booter/get_repositories: Retrieve the repositories bundle used to configure the server
  * booter/get_boot_bundle: Retrieve the boot execution bundle
  * booter/get_decommission_bundle: Retrieve the decommission execution bundle

* auditor actor:
  * auditor/create_new_section: Create a new audit section
  * auditor/update_status: Update the current audit summary
  * auditor/append_info: Append information text to the audit
  * auditor/append_error: Append error message to the audit
  * auditor/append_output: Append script output to the audit
  * auditor/append_raw_output: Same as above but don't append newline character

* forwarder actor:
  * forwarder/schedule_recipe: Request a Chef recipe to be scheduled on this instance
  * forwarder/schedule_right_script: Request a RightScript to be scheduled on this instance

* state recorder actor:
  * state_recorder/record: Record instance state transitions (e.g. <i>boot</i>-><i>operational</i>)

Upon startup the instance agent will first request the boot execution bundle
and run it. If the execution is successful it will then tell the state recorder
actor to transition to the operational state. At that point the agent is ready
to receive requests.

RightLink comes with two command line tools <i>rs_run_recipe</i> and
<i>rs_run_right_script</i> which allow triggering the execution of operational
Chef recipes or RighScript respecively from within the instance itself. These
two command line tools tell the RightLink agent to send a
<i>forwarder/schedule_recipe</i> or <i>forwarder/schedule_right_script</i>
request to the agents that provide these operations. These agents should in
turn call the <i>instance_scheduler/schedule_bundle</i> operation of the
RightLink agent with the right execution bundle.

= INSTALLATION

The <i>scripts</i> folder contains a set of scripts that can be used to
configure and manage the agent. Install these scripts by running the provided
<i>install.sh</i> bash script from the <i>scripts</i> folder.

Installing the agent can then be done using the <b>rad</b> command line tool as
follows:

  rad instance --identity 1 --user nanite --password testing --vhost /nanite  --host localhost

(see <tt>rad --help</tt> for information on the parameters).

This will create the file <i>generated/instance/config.yml</i> which is the
agent configuration file. Running the agent is then done using the <b>rnac</b>
command line tool:

  rnac --start instance

(again <tt>rnac --help</tt> for more details on the rnac tool)

This requires that a RabbitMQ broker is running on localhost and has a /nanite
vhost configured with a Nanite mapper running and setup to use the Nanite
secure serializer.

== Supported Configuration

RightLink has been tested on EC2 instances running CentOS 5.2 and Ubuntu 8.10.

== Work in Progress

RightLink is work in progress, expect more documentation and examples in the near
future. 

= ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

* [1] Nanite is http://github.com/ezmobius/nanite/tree/master
* [2] Chef is http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home
* [3] RightPopen is http://gemcutter.org/gems/right_popen

= LICENSE

<b>RightLink</b>

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2009 RightScale, Inc. 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
