= 6.1.5

Released 2014-08-25

== New Features
* vSphere cloud
  * Multiple network interfaces are now supported.
  * Start/stop is now fully supported.
  * NICs are now renamed on Windows to correspond to the network name.
* Added support for Ubuntu Trusty (14.04)
* Added support for CentOS/RedHat Enterprise Linux 7

== Changes to Existing Functionality
* Environment variable RS_CLOUD is no longer set for RightScripts. Use RS_CLOUD_PROVIDER instead.
* Ubuntu/Debian: RightLink package now depends on generic "openssl" packages instead of specific version 0.9.8 openssl package
* Linux packages have been reorgnized. Source packages are now available for RightLink and the RightLink sandbox for all RightLink repositories. The "rightlink" package now contains all RightLink code and gems, while the "rightlink-sandbox" package contains only Ruby and Rubygems.
* RightLink decomission bundle is now run on a separate thread.  
* vSphere: The floppy drive should no longer be automounted at boot. vSphere metadata is now transmitted via VMware extra config. VMware tools must be pre-installed on the image to support this. When uploading images via ovftool make sure allowExtraConfig option is enabled as well.
* RightScript parameters that are changed from a value to the unset value "No value/ignore" will no longer remember the old value on subsequent runs. The value will now be set to a null value.
* RightScale credentials are now also masked in system logs and not just audit entries. These values will now show up as <hidden input INPUTNAME> instead of their value.
* Support for Ubuntu Raring (13.04) has been dropped.

== Bug fixes
* Fix error for RightScripts and Chef script blocks returning malformed characters. These malformed characters could raise encoding exceptions to cause strands and audit entries to be lost. Characters not appearing to be UTF-8 encoded are now replaced with "?".
* Removed spurious RbConfig warnings when running RightLink command line tools on Windows.
* Ubuntu/Debian: The "rightlink" package now depends on the "lsb-release" package instead of "lsb", reducing the list of dependent packages.
* vSphere cloud
  * SSH key no longer missing if an invalid network config is applied.
  * Removed startup delays waiting for DHCP to timeout if no DHCP network is specified.
  * Removed need to clean system network configuration scripts as mentioned in 6.0.6 "Known limitations" section when snapshotting instances. 
* Ubuntu: RightLink places all its managed repo config files in /etc/apt/sources.list.d. It now creates an empty /etc/apt/sources.list as well instead of simply removing it. This avoids compatibility issues with programs such update-notifier which expect a file to exist at that location.
* RightLink no longer blocks console login when failing to enroll.
* RightLink regenerates /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ecdsa_key if it exists now on first boot.

== Known limitations
* Sometimes RightLink fails to sync up time using System NTP service so uses island load balancer specified in RS_ISLAND user data variable instead.
* ohai command line tool supports a more limited data set, especially on Windows. Use rs_ohai instead.
* Only v14 ServerTemplates are supported due to the Chef and Ruby version bump.
* vSphere cloud
  * Remove /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules before snapshotting instances on vSphere. Instances launched from the snapshotted instance may fail to reconfigure the network correctly on boot if networks are added or removed.
  * When snapshotting instances on Windows, run RightScale supplied sysprep. This hooks into RightLink to remove the state from C:\ProgramData\RightScale.
  * Detection of private networks are limited to well-known subnets as defined in RFC-1918: 10.0.0.0, 192.168.0.0, 172.16.0.0, 172.2.0.0, 172.30.0.0 and 172.31.0.0.

= 6.0.6

Released 2014-05-29

== New Features

* vSphere support via the RightScale Cloud Appliance for vSphere.
* rs_config utility command line utility added.  This utility allows you to configure RightLink options. Of note is the ability to set the default timeout to wait on decommission scripts before forcing reboot or termination. Default value is 180 seconds.
* Properly synced time is necessary for RightLink agent functioning. RightLink now does a one time NTP time sync on startup against user specified, system, or RightScale time servers. Timeservers will be synced in the following order, using the first successful value:
  1. From a server tag "rs_agent:ntp_servers=<hostname1>,<hostname2>,etc" added to servers before boot, if supplied.
  2. From the timeservers value in the config for the RightScale Cloud Appliance for vSphere, if supplied.
  3. System NTP configuration.
  4. From the RightScale load-balancer specified in RS_ISLAND user-data variable.
* Firewall friendliness
  * AMQP has been replaced with HTTP in communication between RightLink agent and RightScale core site.
  * Syncing with NTP, RightLink patching, and software repo mirrors will now go through load-balancer specified in RS_ISLAND user-data variable set by RightScale when the instance launches.
* Added support for passing key 'rs_breakpoint=init_cloud_state' though the user data. This will stop RightLink startup right after cloud definition file is executed.  This is useful for halting RightLink before "phoning home" which will allow one to login to the system and diagnose any networking problems.

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* The cloud-support package for Google is suffixed with "gce" instead of "google".
* chef version upgraded to 11.6.0.
* ruby version upgraded to 1.9.3 p484.
* rs_ohai output now behavior now consistent with vanilla ohai.
* Default SSL protocol bumped to TLSv1.
* /opt/rightscale/sandbox/bin added to end of path for Chef recipes and RightScripts to support
* rs_tag --query now accepts multiple parameters instead of single string
* Unbundled custom Chef resources: dns, executable_schedule, right_link_tag, remote_recipe, server_collection and rs_shutdown. A mixture of RightLink command-line utilities and public cookbooks should be used instead. See http://support.rightscale.com/18-Release_Notes/RightLink_Release_Notes/RightLink_6.0/RightLink_5_to_6_Breaking_Changes for a list of alternatives.
* Enabled Chef report and error handlers.
* RightLink sandbox rubygems (used by Chef) now configured to use frozen RightScale mirrors

== Bug fixes

* Linux RightScripts and Chef recipes that contain or output UTF-8 characters now correctly execute.
* rs_tag utility now returns non-zero status if it fails to add or remove a tag.
* rs_tag raises error on adding or removing an empty tag.
* Empty /etc/apt/sources.list created during repository configuration.
* Server with an empty boot bundle no longer strands when repose is down

== Known Limitations

* Sometimes RightLink fails to sync up time using System NTP service so it uses RS_ISLAND instead
* ohai command line tool supports a more limited data set, especially on Windows. Use rs_ohai instead.
* Only v14 ServerTemplates are supported due to the Chef and Ruby version bump.
* vSphere cloud
  * Only 1 network interface supported at this time.
  * After stop/start of a server, rs_state utility will return a "run" state of booting instead of booting:reboot.  RS_REBOOT will also be set to false instead of true.
  * Does not support changing of static ip information between a stop/start or between reboots
  * When rebundling (snapshotting) images, you MUST reset network configuration and clean out all RightLink state, else static network configuration will not be configured correctly on boot as it will retain the old interface setup.
    * On Linux, remove the /var/lib/rightscale directory.  Also remove /etc/network/interfaces.d/eth* on Ubuntu or /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth* and /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/route-eth* on CentOS
    * On Windows, run RightScale supplied sysprep. This hooks into RightLink to remove the state from C:\ProgramData\RightScale.
  * When setting a static IP address, there will be a delay in the boot sequence as the DHCP client times out waiting for a response.
  * RightImages have ntpd pre-configured for public servers, there may be some warning in logs until the boot recipes configure NTP
  * Detection of private networks is limited to well-known subnets as defined in RFC-1918: 10.0.0.0, 192.168.0.0, 172.16.0.0, 172.2.0.0, 172.30.0.0 and 172.31.0.0
  * For RightLink to work on a vSphere Linux template (aka image), the operating system must be able to automount the fd0 device at /mnt/metadata. CentOS images have a known limitation: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=503308. For CentOS 6 systems, execute "echo 'alias acpi:PNP0700: floppy' > /etc/modprobe.d/floppy-pnp.conf".



= 5.9.5 (RightLink 5.9 GA Release)

Released 2013-11-27

== Bug Fixes

* Added ruby as a package dependency.
* Removed unnecessary warning about rightscale user during package install.
* Fixed regression in patching mechanism.

= 5.9.4 (RightLink 5.9 release candidate 2)

Released 2013-11-20

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* Revert rs_tag query TAG_LIST param to split tags by space. No spaces allowed in a tag.

== Bug Fixes

* Redundant rs_state output when executed.
* Fix RightLink failure to run RightScripts that contain a single or double quote.

= 5.9.3 (RightLink 5.9 release candidate 1)

Released 2013-10-17

== New Features
 * rs_state utility that lets users interrogate the run-state (rs_state --type run) or
   agent state (rs_state --type agent)

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* RightLink changes the audit summary when waiting for missing inputs on boot. It also strands if
  inputs are still missing after 45 minutes. ("Missing" means inputs that are set to a value that
  cannot yet be computed, such as the IP address of a non-running server.)
* RS_DECOM_REASON is not populated anymore
* The cloud-support package for Rackspace Classic cloud suffixed as "rackspace-first-gen" has been removed.
* The cloud-support package for Rackspace OpenCloud is suffixed with "rackspace".

== Bug Fixes

* RightLink sets correct permissions on users' home directories (using OS defaults)
  for users that have been created on login.
* RightLink CLI tools will no longer crash when executed without arguments.
* RightLink will no longer give a warning about missing tty name when boot scripts complete.

= 5.9.2 (RightLink 5.9 beta 3)

Released 2013-09-06.

== New Features

* RightLink's log level can now be controlled by a tag, "rs_agent_dev:log_level". The rs_log_level
  command is now an interface for getting or setting this tag.
* The log-level tag and command no longer apply to the RightLink agent, only to Chef and RightScript
  execution. To set the RightLink agent's log level explicitly, use the "--agent" option of
  rs_log_level.
* When running on a RedHat-derived distribution, RightLink installs public keys for EPEL signed packages
  at boot.

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* When installing RightLink, the recommended technique is to install _only_ the appropriate
  cloud-support package for the cloud in which RightLink will run. The other RightLink packages
  will be installed as dependencies. For instance, to install RightLink on an EC2 instance:
     apt-get install rightlink-cloud-ec2
* The cloud-support packages for Rackspace clouds have been renamed to avoid confusion. The
  package for Rackspace Classic is suffixed with "rackspace-first-gen". The support package for
  Rackspace OpenCloud is suffixed with "rackspace-open-cloud".

== Bug Fixes

* RightLink now looks in the proper directory (/var/spool/rackspace) for cloud-injected
  userdata when running on Rackspace OpenCloud.
* RightLink now requires a modern version of sudo (we rely on the #includedir directive)
* Included SUSE vendor-support tags in our rpmspec to prevent warnings from zypper
* RightLink DEBs are now signed
* Init scripts have more accurate LSB metadata, preventing warnings from init-updaters

= 5.9.1 (RightLink 5.9 beta 2)

Released 2013-08-07.

== New Features

* Rebooting the machine with "rs_shutdown --reboot" will now use OS' facility for rebooting the
  machine rather than invoking the cloud's API to reboot. This works around VM state loss when
  the hypervisor/image isn't properly generating/handling ACPI restart events.

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* Add AMQP connection lifecycle callbacks to ensure that the instance recovers from from AMQP
  connection failures much more rapidly.

* Assign random password to users that are created during SSH login, ensuring that the RightLink
  agent can reliably lock and unlock their accounts when role evolution occurs.

== Bug Fixes

* Repository freezing under CentOS 6 uses the proper public key file name, instead of hardcoding
  "/RPM-GPG-KEY-CentOS-5"

= 5.9.0 (RightLink 5.9 beta 1)

Released 2013-07-13.

== New Features

* The RS_DECOM_REASON environment variable is set during decommission script/recipe execution to
  indicate the reason why decommission is running. This variable will have one of the following
  values: 'reboot', 'stop', 'terminate' or 'unknown'. The value will be 'reboot', 'stop' or
  'terminate' when decommissioning through the RightScale dashboard or when using the rs_shutdown
  command. The 'unknown' value may be seen when the rightlink service is decommissioned (not
  stopped) from the console or else the instance is shutdown or rebooted without using the
  rs_shutdown command.
* RightLink is distributed as a modular "tree" of packages, making it easy to install just what you need
* Improved package hygiene, e.g. clean uninstall and minimal post-install filesystem tampering
* Ability to distinguish between sudo (server_login + server_superuser) and normal (server_login) users
* Cookbook contents are cached on the instance, significantly improving converge speed

== Changes to Existing Functionality

* Disable users' accounts if they lose login privileges, in addition to removing trust in their key
* Respect /etc/sudoers.d when configuring sudo
* Minimize sudo privileges of rightscale user
* Freeze RubyGems by editing the systemwide RubyGems config file (/etc/gemrc) rather than modifying
  root's (~root/.gemrc). This helps ensure more consistent RubyGems behavior across multiple users and Ruby versions.
* Support frozen repositories for Ubuntu 12.04-12.10 (precise, quantal)
* Update sandbox Ruby to 1.8.7p371
* Remove OpenSSL from the sandbox; link against system OpenSSL to inherit OS security patches
* Remove monit from the sandbox (RightLink no longer relies on it)
* PowerShell/Chef process spawning has been improved under Windows

== Bug Fixes

* pty ownership is assigned correct to enable screen/tmux sessions as "rightscale@<host>"
* Chef "script" resource now honors the user, group and umask attributes
* Chef "right_link_tag" resource no longer crashes on "load" action
* Exit codes for rs_run_recipe and rs_run_right_script accurately reflect failure/success
* rs_run_right_script can deal with parameters that contain "="
* Network failures during cookbook/attachment download are handled gracefully
* MOTD no longer refers to obsolete files
* Output of "rs_tag --help" has been improved
* AMQP broker reconnect reliability improved for certain corner cases
* SuSE metadata query on CloudStack has been fixed

= 5.8.13 (General Availability release in conjunction with ServerTemplates v13.4)

== New Features

=== Cloud Support

== Bug Fixes

* Hardened metadata retrieval for Windows on Openstack to overcome DHCP-lease race conditions

= 5.8.12 (Limited-availability release)

== New Features

=== Cloud Support

* Rackspace Open Cloud

== Bug Fixes

* Managed login always displays MOTD, works with older versions of sudo,
* Cookbook download is more reliable in fail-and-retry scenarios

= 5.8.8 (General Availability release in conjunction with ServerTemplates v12.11 LTS)

== New Features

=== Cloud Support

* Google Compute Engine
* Windows Azure
* SoftLayer

=== Security and Compliance

* Compliance with the Linux Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) helps RightLink coexist with host-based IDS
  * See INSTALL.rdoc for more information on filesystem paths
* Managed login requires users to login with to their own limited-privilege account, and to execute privileged commands using "sudo"
* Some features of RightLink can be disabled prior to package install, to facilitate custom image builds for high-security deployment
  environments
  * For more information, refer to http://bit.ly/IftBeq or to RightLink's INSTALL.rdoc

=== Automation

* Concurrent recipe/script execution is supported; see the --thread option of rs_run_recipe and rs_run_right_script.
* Non-error audit output can be suppressed for recipes/scripts that run very frequently; see the --policy and --audit-period
  options of rs_run_recipe and rs_run_right_script
* Tag queries accept a timeout option -- both via the rs_tag command-line tool, and the ServerCollection resource
* The agent queries its own tags before running a sequence of scripts or recipes, helping to ensure that tag-based decisions
  are made using fresh state. The result of the tag query is audited, to enhance transparency and facilitate debugging.

=== Chef

* Chef 0.10.10
* An rs_ohai command is available to invoke Ohai from the command line with all of the RightScale plugins and enhancements.
* RightLink features "development mode" for cookbooks, wherein the instance directly checks out cookbooks from their
  associated Git/Subversion repository and converges using the contents of the repo. Users can edit recipes between runs,
  and even commit and push their changes upstream after everything is working.
  * Enable this for selected cookbooks by applying a tag to the server that lists comma-separated dev cookbook names
  * e.g. rs_agent_dev:dev_cookbooks=cb_1,cb_2,cb_3,...
  * For more information on cookbook development, refer to http://bit.ly/HHcVhs
* Most commands invoked by Ohai/Chef are logged with DEBUG severity for easier debugging of troublesome providers/recipes. To change
  the RightLink log, use the rs_log_level command.

== Miscellaneous

* The rs_agent_dev:log_level tag now allows you to specify any level (not just debug). Other agent-dev tags no longer force debug log level.
  The log level can be changed by other utilities, e.g. the rs_log_level command, even if it has been initially set by the tag. The chef
  process will re-query it's tags prior to convergence and the rs_log_level tag will take precedence in this case.

== Bug Fixes

* The command-line tools now report a meaningful version number (currently 0.3) and will continue to do so with future RightLink releases
* Instances will strand if they fail to install any package required by boot scripts
* HTTP metadata fetching is more tolerant of server errors; its output is far less verbose
* The UI's ordering of cookbook repositories is preserved at runtime, for cookbooks that are defined in multiple repos
* Extraneous Ohai debug output has been squelched from audits and logs
* RightLink agent startup and shutdown is more reliable under Linux
